Mosaic generator
================

This program will generate a mosaic of a provided photo (-photo), either
by searching for images on Flickr (-query) or reading them from the
local filesystem (-dir).

It divides the input image into tiles of the indicated size (-tilesize),
and tries to match all the available images to each of these tiles by
computing the squared distance in RGB space between the tile in the
original picture and the tile image. Once the best matches have been
selected, an output image is created using tiles of the indicated output
size (-outtilesize). In general the output tile size is larger than the
matching tile size, and therefore the output image is
outtilesize/tilesize times larger than the input one (along each axis).
This is done because a mosaic becomes interesting when you can recognize
the original picture while at the same time being able to see some
detail in the individual tails composing the mosaic.

Flickr
------

If you want to use the Flickr query function, you need to provide a
configuration file called "config.json" that looks like this:

{
	"FlickrApi" : {
		"Key" : "your API key",
		"Secret" : "your secret"
	}
}

The reason why this isn't available on the command line is because I'd
like to provide support for other services eventually (and originally
this was intented to work form a web service, not from the command
line).

Limitations
-----------

* Tiles are square. There's nothing inherent in the code that requires
  this, but they are.

* Because of the above, images used for the tiles should be cropped, by
  in the current implementation they are not, an image of 640x480 will
  be mercilessly scaled down to, say, 16x16 pixels, becoming distorted
  in the process.

* No attempt is made to limit the amount of memory used. For example, if
  you run with -tilesize=1 and -outtilesize=75, the output image will
  have 75*75 = 5625 times more pixels. This means that a regular 4
  MegaPixel image becomes a 21 GigaPixel one, appropriate for large
  format printing. If you have the memory, knock yourself out. Because
  of the way the program works, I'm guessing that would require over 128
  GB of RAM. Obviously this goes down if you set -tilesize to a larger
  value. For example -tilesize=16 and -outtilesize=75 outputs an image
  with 18 MP.

Trivia
------

Why 75x75? Because that's the size of Flickr's "small" images. In the
Flickr path, the program does not retrieve the larger formats because
that doesn't make sense (see last point above about memory
requirements). Instead it is happy with retrieving the already-scaled
down images, and since Flickr already provides this particular size...
